Along with protecting data and systems,
we also need to ensure that users are who they say they are,
and that they only have access to the specific data they need to and not to everything.
This concept is called least privileged access.
This is where the Identity and Access Management or IAM service helps out.
IAM is an AWS service that allows us to configure who can access our AWS account,
services, or even applications running in our account.
IAM is a global service and is automatically available across all regions.
When you initially sign up for a free tier AWS account,
the e-mail address you used to sign up with becomes your root level account,
and has full access and permissions to any and everything within your account.
I cannot stress enough that you must secure your root account,
and that you shouldn't use the root user credentials for everyday access.
One way to secure your root account is by using Multi Factor Authentication or MFA.
Which will always require an additional form of
authentication along with your password like,
a code sent to your cell phone,
or a code from a multi authentication app on your cell phone before logging you in.
If you haven't secured your account in this manner,
stop this video right now and do it.
There are several security concepts within IAM.
An IAM user is an entity that you create an AWS to represent
the person or service that interacts with
services or applications running in your AWS account.
A user in AWS consists of a username and access credentials like,
a console password on access key,
which includes an access key ID and a secret access key.
An IAM group is a collection of users.
You can specify permissions for a collection which makes permissions easier to manage.
A role is an identity with permissions or a set of
privileges that are not associated with a specific IAM user or IAM group.
Roles can be attached to a user,
and a user can assume a single role temporarily to perform a specific task.
A policy is a way to define
granular level permissions and can be attached to users, groups and roles.
AWS provides a pre-defined list of policies.
Additionally, you can create your own custom policies using JSON.
This is an example of a custom policy that states,
"Everyone has access to an S3 bucket called mybucket".
EC2 security groups aren't technically a part of IAM.
New AWS users often confuse it with
an IAM security group but they are two totally different things.
EC2 security groups are associated with an EC2 instance and act
as a built-in firewall for your virtual servers to either allow or deny access.
We discussed EC2 security groups when we discussed security and EC2.